[Return to home](https://github.com/jess-mw/desk23)

# Conclusion

## Contents
a. [Reflect on the working practices of your group](https://github.com/jess-mw/desk23/tree/main/Documentation/6.%20Conclusion#a-reflect-on-the-working-practices-of-your-group-how-well-they-did-or-did-not-work-eg-management-of-issues-communication-agile-etc)

b. [Reflective discussion of the success of the project](https://github.com/jess-mw/desk23/tree/main/Documentation/6.%20Conclusion#b-reflective-discussion-of-the-success-of-the-project-how-well-did-your-project-fulfil-the-brief-were-all-of-your-own-objectives-met)

c. [Reflection on how coronavirus has affected the project](https://github.com/jess-mw/desk23/tree/main/Documentation/6.%20Conclusion#c-this-is-a-chance-to-reflect-on-how-coronavirus-has-affected-your-project-remote-working-practices-etc)

d. [Discussion of social and ethical implications of our work](https://github.com/jess-mw/desk23/tree/main/Documentation/6.%20Conclusion#d-discussion-of-social-and-ethical-implications-of-your-work)

e. [Discussion of future work](https://github.com/jess-mw/desk23/tree/main/Documentation/6.%20Conclusion#e-discussion-of-future-work-in-terms-of-design-development-and-evaluation)

## a. Reflect on the working practices of your group, how well they did or did not work, e.g, management of issues, communication, Agile (etc).

The working practices of our group primarily involved various types of meetings. The main meetings were the sprint meetings: 2 weekly long-form meetings where we go over what had occurred over the previous week, setting, and updating our goals which we drew up in the previous meeting. We also had bi-weekly stand-ups that coincided with module lectures to offer up quick updates on the state of our work. This was also reflected in our Trello board, and Sprint Documents, with a clear focus on objective setting and problem troubleshooting and resolution. The working hours of the group lent itself to the team having a high level of availability during standard working hours, so there was always someone available to discuss anything pertaining to the implementation of the project. We believe that the project executed an agile philosophy reasonably well, with its focus on rapid prototyping and refining, with a stream of constant feedback on designs. The four-step flow that defines Agile was something consistently present in form during our implementation period. If we were to narrow our specific type of agile process, it could be considered a mix of both Kanban and Scrum philosophies through the use of the Trello board, as well as the overall task layout of the group project which was the regular implementations of MVPs over a series of short sprint periods. There were some elements of the other agile process of Scrum using sprints to define the various implementation periods.  

All in all, the mix of availability, frequent meetings and open communication about problems and possible solutions, ensured successful delivery of a minimal viable product and a great deal of success meeting our sprint targets and goals set on the brief.

There does, however, exist some concern that the group didn’t fill out the concept of an Agile workflow as perfectly as it could have been, due to the remote nature of the work. Arguably the largest deficit in our implementation of an agile workflow was that there was not a strict adherence to either Kanban or Scrum, but a blend of both methodologies to fit our purposes. Reviewing our practices from this perspective, perhaps a clearer division between the two types of practices could have resulted in better definitions of problems and targets, meaning that we could have achieved more in the time we were given. In addition, starting our sprints two weeks earlier (thus having one additional sprint) would have been highly beneficial to the final project outcome. However, due to the requirements of other modules and associated deadlines, this did not happen.

## b. Reflective discussion of the success of the project. How well did your project fulfil the brief? Were all of your own objectives met

We believe that the brief of creating a serious play app, and the implementation of a single-page application was successful on all fronts, as we have been able to deliver a working MVP of SPA within the set timeline. Aside from these high-level objectives that tied directly to the brief, there were also smaller scale objectives we either assigned to enact properly or set for ourselves: group communication, implementation and adherence to an agile philosophy, role delegation and ideation (just a few of a broader list), all of which we believe we met. A special mention should be given to both our ideation process and our feedback loop on iterations on our design and the version versions of our SPA implementation. We prioritized constant user group feedback in our approach to building the webpage from minute details in UI/UX features like buttons and arrows and colour scheme to the approach our MVP would take to the globe, settling on the ThreeJS globe over the D3 version of the same defining feature. Overall, our group has come to believe that we met the full range of objectives given to us, and those set on our own.

## c. This is a chance to reflect on how coronavirus has affected your project (remote working practices etc)

Coronavirus meant that the team’s interaction was conducted online - standups were held online, and group members relied heavily on platforms such as Teams for day-to-day communication. On the one hand, technical issues at times made this more complicated, including poor speaker quality or buffering/frozen participants in calls obfuscating certain contributions, but this also brought some unexpected perks such as being able to share resources with each other live, as we were on a call, and having a common reference point, a de facto transcript of the conversation that could be referred back to recall a point that was raised, or a decision that had been reached. However, team building and morale were made more challenging due to the restrictions from COVID-19 since it was not possible to work together in person.

COVID-19 conditions also complicated user testing, making identifying and accessing focus group participants more difficult by restricting the available formats in which these could take place and limiting in-person interviews to household bubbles. User testing was particularly tricky for feedback sessions that relied heavily on the interviewer observing the user's interaction with a prototype. Observational notes made up an important part of the qualitative data collected to inform the design and improve the user experience, underpinning the thematic analysis and findings, so it was important that these could be gathered in a reliable and rigorous way.

With COVID-19, it became more difficult to allow the user uninhibited access to the prototype in order to freely explore the functionality and design. It also became more challenging for the interviewer to pick up on user reactions and feelings for the interpretation part of the research process. To mitigate these challenges, recordings were used to be able to reference back more complex feedback or to catch things that may have been missed the first time. In addition, semi-structured feedback sessions, guided by a set of questions and a protocol for interaction helped a lot, particularly for the virtual interviews. Technologies like screen sharing and allowing users remote access to the observer's computer helped, though these also opened up new ethics issues that needed to be addressed (see Ethics section). It was also more difficult to build trust with the users and make them feel comfortable, who, even though they were often family members or friends, may have been unused to the new setting.

## d. Discussion of Social and Ethical implications of your work.

Creating a product that was well thought out in terms of social and ethical implications was of great importance to our team. We thus began the project by laying out a carefully discussed ethical framework. Please see [our ethical framework documentation](https://github.com/jess-mw/desk23/blob/main/Documentation/6.%20Conclusion/Ethical%20Framework.md) for an analysis of the process, and the [final principles](https://github.com/jess-mw/desk23/blob/main/Documentation/6.%20Conclusion/Ethical%20Framework.md#the-framework) we decided upon.

Looking at the progress of the project retrospectively through the lense of our ethical framework, there are some areas that could be improved. For example, one of our main priorities was to build for everyone. However, due to limitations on time, this is not something that we have achieved to the extent that we were hoping to. The website as it currently stands is not very accessible for people that have disabilities. From a [utilitarian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Utilitarianism) perspective, this is unethical because it does not provide the greatest happiness for the greatest number, as there are large swathes of the population unaccounted for in the current design. A future extension of the project could be to improve these features, for instance by including audio descriptions and options to increase font size. 

Due to limitations with our data set, there are also several countries for which we have no, or very little, data. This contributes to existing biases by enhancing existing imbalances in research. This is unethical from a utlitarian perspective as it does not lead to the greatest happiness for the greatest number - in fact, it arguably contributes to the opposite of this. From a [Kantian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kantian_ethics) perspective, it is also unethical as we have not fulfilled our duty to perform the action from purely moral motives - we allowed amoral motives such as wanting to create an artefact to guide us above this. Thus, a future extension would be to target the missing data and fill the gaps. An even greater extension to this would be to examine how existing biases have affected research into literacy rates, and incorporate this into our design. In addition, our website is only available in English, making it inaccessible for users who do not speak the language. We would ideally like to make the website available to as many languages as we can.

Whilst we have tried to design with the user in mind, due to safeguarding concerns, we have conducted no research with our actual target group. From a [deontological](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deontological_ethics) perspective, this was ethical route to take, as we were following important rules that are in place to protect children and vulnerable groups. However, there are some aspects of their experience that we may not have addressed because of this. Thus, we may perhaps have missed some aspects of our utilitarian goal of causing the greatest happiness for the greatest number in terms of creating the most enjoyable/suitable product for our target user group. An extension to the project, with proper ethical approval and safeguarding measures in place, could be to conduct a study with this user group to ensure we are targeting their interests. Another extension could be an in depth analysis to ensure that the website is a safe and secure space for our vulnerable user group.

Designing for scale is something we have tried to address through the choice of MongoDB for our database, and rooting the development in docker. However, there are likely adjustments that would need to be made for increased scalability.

An aspect of our framework we feel we addressed well was to be data driven. We ensured that the majority of our design choices were driven by data gathered in feedback sessions with our users. We also used open source data sets, and made the collection we created ourselves to be open source as well. We could still enhance our practices in this area by ensuring that we have a more diverse user group in our feedback sessions, and gathering a larger pool of data to improve the fairness of our results. More fair and diverse data will contribute to our utilitarian aims.

Overall we feel that the social and ethical implications of our work, whilst not catastrophically unethical at this stage of the project, could be greatly improved in many areas - some of which we have outlined here. As the project develops in future work, we will ensure that our decisions are guided by our ethical framework and continued ethical analysis takes place to try to mitigate unethical actions or consequences.

## e. Discussion of future work (in terms of design, development and evaluation)

When we first imagined the idea of our app and settled on the globe element as its defining feature, we realised it could be used as a canvas for a host of global issues. Motivated then, by the planned features being created using D3, the main library used by firms across the world to create compelling data visualisations, we began with the aim that our core plan for the future would ultimately be the addition of other datasets with which we then adapt to build new global visualisation beyond that of just literacy rates (which would remain our minimal viable product). Other themes we were keen to explore include: 

* Global Poverty Rates
* Average Income
* Global Emissions by country
* Educational Attainment
* Consumption levels by Country

Beyond just literacy rates, the core thought pattern that ran through our group was that we could use this playful globe object, created fairy quickly, to build choropleths that spoke to issues that engage us and we believe are important to understand from a global scope, in essence, building a global fact file by taking advantage of Angular’s routing capabilities to route separate d3.js files to the same globe element.

One of the major challenges of building the globe element was the functionality of d3 inside an angular/typescript environment, where core functionality was broken due to static typing rules, making development cumbersome and difficult. This initial problem near the start of our development process made it clear we would need a second option for the core feature: the threejs component that would become the MVP. A Future consideration would be a redesign and refactoring of the website so there exists a combination of a D3 globe to get the customization it offers but the rendering of a threejs system, to add to the interactivity of the website.   

Beyond changing the significant shift in the overall scope of the project to a multi-problem fact-file dealing with different global issues we had plans to delve into more specific disparities within literacy rates, one being gender disparities where it was more likely more men to be literate than women in some cultures, again powered through the use of the d3.js library, zooming in this case on specific countries though the use of the d3.geoprojection and path system where we can draw maps on specific countries instead of the world globe.

Outside of development changes, we had a plan to experiment and create surveys on the type of map views being offered, beyond the Orthographic view (d3's £D style globe) or three.js globe render. We would have built different map presentations or added a menu for you to choose the style in which data would be displayed. Examples include a Werner Projection, Bottomley projection or a US Centric Gingery projection. This adds to the “play”/gamified element of our app, empowering our design and allowing us to better survey our various user groups to tease out their tastes and what they might want to see from a customization perspective.

Another additional development feature with significant potential is that of pointing to relevant charities, non-governmental organisations and key persons within the literacy and education movements dependent on location, embedding links into specific countries tooltips, which would aid educational element of the serious play concept.  In conclusion, this project is ripe for expansion, and additional features, to build the type of data visualisations we need.
