# Idea Analysis
We then went through each of the four chosen ideas, building out the concept and then going through any potential issues.
After this process, we each assigned a number of points to identify the favourite ideas.

## Game of Life
* Allow users around the world to contribute to the data  
* Live representation of the endangered species around the world 
* Combination of endangered species and factors that are making them go extinct – users can toggle settings to look at different species? 
* Ability to adjust timescale 
* Available data for endangered species: habitats, population, what you can do to help, etc. 
* Option to adjust the factors affecting a species’ survival – e.g. Sufficient food/water/access to resources, predators, poachers – can be educational in terms of the main risks to a given species survival and what they depend on in their environments/ecosystem - just seen this was mentioned above 

## Fostering a Pet Online
* Allow users to experience a variety of species and breeds, allowing them to better understand themselves as well as their potentially new friend(s) 
* Option to customise according to accommodation style/size, access to green spaces to match you with an ideal breed/species (their requirements matched to your own) 
* Experience the potential destructive nature of a pet that is ignored / left alone  
* Responsibility dimension, to appreciate the work that is involved (as well as the play and general cuteness) - walk, feed, play requirements – and to understand the time and financial investment that getting a pet involves 
* Allow users to create a virtual house e.g. setting size dimensions, number of rooms etc.  

## Crypto Board Game
* Allow for the creation of multiple custom styles of board games (Monopoly, Catan, Risk etc) 
* Everything crypto/tech centric.  
* Creation of Art Assests required for the game (Design Elements) 
* Enabling multiplayer gameplay, with individual control of game tokens. 
* Storing Game Logic and Save State in a Database. 
* Drag and Drop Functionality for assets tokens representing anything from houses and hotels in the case of monopoly, to roads and weapons found in other games 
* Bet on your success with real crypto currency  

## Literacy Rates Around the World (Interactive Design)
* Interactive globe  
* Graph in the shape of words / letters (in different languages too) 
* Using sound to portray the data  
* Option to present the user with scrambled/nonsensical data, and for them to need to piece it together like a puzzle – simulating the experience   
* See vid of how English sounds for non-English speakers 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Game of Life 

*Name of product*  
* Game of Game or some pun to do with game hunting. 
* Gaming with our planet 
* Game of extinction 

*What is the serious problem being addressed?*  
* Animal conservation & threat of extinction 
* Who is this going to help? What's the impact? What's the motivation?  
* Aid awareness of animal conservation issues and create a visualisation of real data to enforce the reality of these issues 
* Links to conservation charities? 
* Educational motivation, help people understand the impact human action has on other species 

*Who is going to use it? Why will they use it?*  
* Changing the parameters to increase risk factors/enablers to the population’s survival 
* For use by general interested population/educational purposes in schools etc - all ages, demographics 
* Learn about the impact of climate change, natural events, and human action on animal population 

*How does the project integrate play?*  
* Creates beautiful visuals surrounding the data, allowing children to be able to understand the impact of animal endangerment (but through playful means). Data will be colourful, interactive/responsive and bubbly 😊  
* What game/play mechanics will be being used?  
* Game of life mechanics/rule inspiration 
* Data floating around – similar to other popular informatics  

*How will the play or game element help?*  
* Deeper engagement with the serious topic at hand, everyone participating in the discussion.  
* Opening the user base up to all ages – allowing anyone to understand the data being represented  
* A different method of showcasing data other than graphs and tables.  

*What are you going to make?*  
* A Conway’s Game of Life for animal conservation awareness – could focus on the 6 most endangered species for example, or animals coexisting in the same ecosystem, affecting each other’s survival 
* Have different rules/factors that can come into play to show their effect on species e.g. natural disaster happens, rising CO2 levels, deforestation? 

*What features will your project have? What is the scope of project?*  
* Interactive interface for users to view detailed information of the endangered species, what causing them to go extinct, affecting their survival, as well as contribute their own data for recording endangered species. 
* Building the Conway’s Game of Life showing the importance of protecting endangered animals. 

*What are the technical challenges? Are you using an external API/database?*  
* Finding a good way of implementing rules 
* Gathering data on species populations 

*Will this be for mobile or desktop? (or both!)*  
* Desktop.  

### Issues:  
* Gathering data – will this be constantly updating? Or just a one off from a data set?  
* What data set will we use? 
* Visual data might be hard to represent with limited background in graphical design  
* Struggling to understand how cellular automata will be incorporated? Is there a way? 
* Is it actually playful?  
* Allow users to interact with the interface? E.g. comparing different species and environments 

## Fostering a pet online 

*Name of product*  
* Adopta-Pet? Luv-a-Doggo?  Can you foster?  

*What is the serious problem being addressed?*  
* Topics on pet adoption, and the responsibility required, seeing as during the COVID-19 Pandemic, pet ownership has shot up, due to feelings of loneliness and boredom, but people haven't taken into consideration the job of being a pet parent, leading to pet abandonment 

*Who is this going to help? What's the impact? What's the motivation?*  
* Helps to ensure that people know what they are getting into prior to adopting a pet to ensure pet (and human) wellbeing, prevent animal cruelty 
* Help people to understand their preferences/requirements for getting a pet so they can take a considered decision and get a pet that suits their lifestyle 

*Links to animal cruelty charities?* 
* Who is going to use it? Why will they use it?  
* For people want to have a pet but unknown if they are ready or not 
* By playing the game the user would realize the responsibility of adopting a pet and how to take care of it, understand more of their preference of the pet 

*How does the project integrate play?* 
* Allows the user to enjoy the fun aspects of owning a pet.  
* Users can interact with their pet, e.g., play fetch if it is a dog.  
* Will be learning a lot about an animal without ever interacting with one in real life.  
* Virtual pet simulation, caring for and looking after a pet involves an interactive dimension 

*What game/play mechanics will be being used?*  
* Role play / simulated gaming 
* Allowing users to properly understand the impact of correctly taking care of your pet vs incorrectly 

*How will the play or game element help?* 
* Make educational aspect fun and interactive to keep interest. 
* Will encourage people interested in fostering to first try out their potentially new buddy! Testing their compatibility within a safe and fun environment.  

*What are you going to make?*  
* A role-playing simulation game where the user can foster a digital pet of any species and breed.  
* Users will be taking care of these pets for as long as possible, until they pass away from either old age, sickness or neglect 

*What features will your project have? What is the scope of project?* 
* Responsibility aspect – walking, feeding, play 
* Matching/selection aspect – parameters to suit your lifestyle, find the right species/breed for you, can try several options 

*What are the technical challenges? Are you using an external API/database?* 
* Simulation challenges? 
* Will require large database for contents concerning the various species and breeds offered by the site.          

*Will this be for mobile or desktop? (or both!)*  
* Both 

### Issues:  
* Where will the data come from? Is it data driven? Does data need to be the central focus? 
* Is this project perhaps too large? Too many moving factors... 
* Idea isn’t fleshed out properly  
* Technical implementation us vague

## Crypto Board Game 

*Name of product*  
* Cryptopoly 

*What is the serious problem being addressed?*  
* Knowledge on a new, revolutionary financial instrument, privacy implications and broader economic consequences of this disruption 

*Who is this going to help? What's the impact? What's the motivation?*  
* Will be a playful introduction to Blockchain technology and cryptocurrencies to anyone willing to play it. The impact will be broadening the scope of someone’s financial education beyond the basics of saving and long-term investment that has been parroted for decades. Motivated by a worrying lack of financial literacy amongst the general public, as evidenced by the general public's lack of knowledge on this like Stocks, bonds, and markets. Blockchain and crypto have the potential to be more worrying due to its near non-existent barrier to entry and lack of regulation.  

*Who is going to use it? Why will they use it?*  
* Students of finance, new technologies for example to study 
* General public to become informed 

*How does the project integrate play?* 
* Board game style 
* Ability to play with other people 

*What game/play mechanics will be being used?* 
* Monopoly style rules 
* Simple / complex trading functions – adding a little more spice to the game that is Monopoly  
* Allow adults to incorporate their own crypto currency – similar to online poker / other gambling sites (though if this is done, we will need to ensure the legalities of it all!).  

*How will the play or game element help?* 
* Educating people who are perhaps unable to understand the functioning of crypto currency through traditional means (e.g. a textbook or YouTube video). Allowing people to learn through interaction and physical experiences would provide a new perspective to how crypto works.  

*What are you going to make?*  
* A board game website that allows you and your friends / others online to play a game of monopoly surrounding the crypto currency concepts 

*What features will your project have? What is the scope of project?*
* Multiplayer, each player takes a turn – option to play against bots if you are alone? 
* Voice/Video/Text Chat functionality (like among us)? 
* Ability to leave and come back to the game? As monopoly can take a while 

*What are the technical challenges? Are you using an external API/database?* 
* Making an interactive game/an application that responds well to user input and is engaging 
* Having a multi-user game – will this be virtual or only accessible from one computer? I.e. could two people play each from their own computer – this might be difficult to implement 

*Will this be for mobile or desktop? (or both!)*  
* Both 

### Issues: 
* No gambling  

## Literacy rates around the world 
*Name of product*  
* Left Unread,  

*What is the serious problem being addressed?*  
* A lack of understanding of the inequalities around the globe in terms of education (reading and writing at minimum). 
* Giving a new visualisations to what the numbers mean e.g. is 97% literacy rate bad at all? It might be if the 10 neighbouring countries are at 99% (just an example). 

*Who is this going to help? What's the impact? What's the motivation?*  
* Raising awareness of inequalities in literacy rates globally, ability to quickly identify gaps to inform programmes to address them  

*Who is going to use it? Why will they use it?*  
* For everyone who are interested in literacy and education and would like to know more about education around the globe 
* The website will show the user important information of unbalanced literacy rates around the world, calling for the improvement of education in less developed regions. 
* Governments and NGOs could use them for analysis but probably mostly will be an educational tool 

*How does the project integrate play?* 
* A visual and appealing design – visual way to display useful information

*What game/play mechanics will be being used?*  
* Interactive element? E.g. ability to zone in on a particular area 
* Playful display of images 

*How will the play or game element help?* 
* Through the use of innovative visuals 
* Combining colour and sound in a unique way to lean towards a more playful nature  
* Make learning more interesting through playful elements/more likely to remember something that was a bit different/caught your eye 

*What are you going to make?*  
* A website showing the inequality in terms of education, with the ability of interacting in various ways, including but not limited in words, graphs, maps and sounds. 
* Links to charities/things you can do to help/more information about why literacy rates are how they are/how this impacts people 
* Interactive minigame simulating people being illiterate. 

*What features will your project have? What is the scope of project?* 
* 3D assets potentially, global coverage of literacy rates with further segmentation into gender and cultural reasons for lack of reading and writing skills. Can be expanded to provide regional analysis  

*What are the technical challenges? Are you using an external API/database?* 
* Will need to scrape the data from government/third sector websites or access government APIs to form the database for the project 
* Will need to figure out a way to present that data in a visually appealing way – also maintaining the innovative spirit, the website / informatic should not just be a recreation of what has been done before 
* How might we have used new mediums e.g. sound, colour, haptic touch to convey information? 
* How might someone who does not know how to read or write be able to understand the information?  

*Will this be for mobile or desktop? (or both!)* 
* Desktop 

### Issues:  
* Simulating the data for those who are unable to read would be difficult  
* How can we make it different to what already exists? 

## Rankings
| Pts | Jessica | Stanni | Emily | Wenda | Hamza |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| 4 | Literacy Rates | Crypto Game | Crypto Game | Literacy Rates | Literacy Rates |
| 3 | Crypto Game | Literacy Rates | Literacy Rates | Virtual Pets | Crypto Game|
| 2 | GoL | Virtual Pets | GoL | GoL | Virtual Pets|
| 1 | Virtual Pets | GoL | Virtual Pets | Crypto Game | GoL

### Totals:
1. Literacy Rates: 18
2. Crypto Game: 15
3. Virtual Pets: 9
4. Game of Life: 8
