
<div align = center>

[<-- Back](https://github.com/jess-mw/desk23/tree/main/Documentation/1.%20Background%20and%20Motivation#a-background-literature-academic-research-review)
   </div>
   
## Scoping

### Conceptual Scope
*How 'big' is your project? What's the balance between the serious and playful sides?*
*	Leaning towards the more serious elements e.g. raising awareness of the impact of low literacy rates, the number of countries with below average literacy rates 
*	Includes playful elements that aim to retain attention
  	
*Are you looking to raise awareness about your serious issue or to provoke a changes in attitudes / behaviour. If so, is this with a particular demographic/group?*
*	Both raising awareness with our target user group (school aged children and adolescents) and encouraging perspective on their education and  knowledge of a global issue.

*What are the primary objectives for your project? Are there any you could prioritise?*
*	Display clearly recent trends and patterns in literacy rates at the global/regional levels
*	Increase interest and understanding of global literacy data particularly among young people through an interactive facility
*	Highlight gaps at the regional and national levels to pave way to mobilise international support to education
*	Help shape young people into responsible and aware citizens

*Remember that the aim is to build a minimum viable product (MVP), with the intended aim that it would be at the level to show investors.*

### Technical Scope
*Which sections are you focusing on. Agree as a team is there a focus on the backend / frontend?*
*	More focus on front end – main database already provided from online sources so only need to cope with user interaction in addition
*	Focus on creating an interactive globe/making data interesting to navigate (highlighted as important from survey)

*Does the technical development support the concept? Can you trim out anything that doesn't?*
*	For the most part yes, one struggle might be a globe element and the lack of native support for the concept in the desired development stack

*Decide on the fidelity of each of your functions. For instance, do you need to integrate a fully working map? or would a static one do as a proof of concept?* 
*	Preferably fully working as it is a key part of our idea

*Data. Is this 'live' or running from a hand-selected data set?*
*	Hand selected dataset that we can package with any production version of our website

*Use user stories to identify technical scope.*
*	Think about results from survey monkey and form focus group


### Evaluation Scope
*What evaluation questions do you have? What do you know already? What do you not know? Do you have any assumptions?*
*	3D Elements vs 2D elements? 
*	We assumed that including 3D elements would result in a more playful website – more interactive – hence allowing younger children to easily access the data whilst playing around with the globe!
*	We don’t know if lights would be a better representation in comparison to sound.

*When are you evaluating it?*
*	Throughout the design and build process

*What evaluation methods are you using?*
*	Survey, focus group, desk research
*	Explain how and why we chose literacy rates, then go into primary research and exploring design choices
*	Evaluate websites doing similar things

*What is the depth of your data collection and analysis?*
*	Option for survey ex post to collect feedback and insight into user experience from focus group and wider networks

*It's ok to tell us how you would evaluate given further time and resources (we don't expect you for instance to run a 30 person user study!)*
* Probably best to fill out towards the end of the project!

<div align = center>

[<-- Back](https://github.com/jess-mw/desk23/tree/main/Documentation/1.%20Background%20and%20Motivation#a-background-literature-academic-research-review)
   </div>
