## Scoping

### Conceptual Scope
•	How 'big' is your project? What's the balance between the serious and playful sides?
o	Leaning towards the more serious elements e.g. raising awareness of the impact of low literacy rates, the number of countries with below average literacy rates 
o	Includes playful elements that aim to retain attention  	
•	Are you looking to raise awareness about your serious issue or to provoke a changes in attitudes / behaviour. If so, is this with a particular demographic/group?  
o	Both raising awareness with our target user group (school aged children and adolescents) and encouraging perspective on their education and  knowledge of a global issue.
•	What are the primary objectives for your project? Are there any you could prioritise?
o	Display clearly recent trends and patterns in literacy rates at the global/regional levels
o	Increase interest and understanding of global literacy data particularly among young people through an interactive facility
o	Highlight gaps at the regional and national levels to pave way to mobilise international support to education
o	Help shape young people into responsible and aware citizens
•	Remember that the aim is to build a minimum viable product (MVP), with the intended aim that it would be at the level to show investors.

### Technical Scope
•	Which sections are you focusing on. Agree as a team is there a focus on the backend / frontend?
o	More focus on front end – main database already provided from online sources so only need to cope with user interaction in addition
o	Focus on creating an interactive globe/making data interesting to navigate (highlighted as important from survey)

•	Does the technical development support the concept? Can you trim out anything that doesn't?
o	For the most part yes, one struggle might be a globe element and the lack of native support for the concept in the desired development stack

•	Decide on the fidelity of each of your functions. For instance, do you need to integrate a fully working map? or would a static one do as a proof of concept? 
o	Preferably fully working as it is a key part of our idea

•	Data. Is this 'live' or running from a hand-selected data set?
o	Hand selected dataset that we can package with any production version of our website

•	Use user stories to identify technical scope.
o	Think about results from survey monkey and form focus group


### Evaluation Scope

•	What evaluation questions do you have? What do you know already? What do you not know? Do you have any assumptions?
o	3D Elements vs 2D elements? 
o	We assumed that including 3D elements would result in a more playful website – more interactive – hence allowing younger children to easily access the data whilst playing around with the globe!
o	We don’t know if lights would be a better representation in comparison to sound.
•	When are you evaluating it?
o	Throughout the design and build process
•	What evaluation methods are you using?
o	Survey, focus group, desk research
o	Explain how and why we chose literacy rates, then go into primary research and exploring design choices
o	Evaluate websites doing similar things
•	What is the depth of your data collection and analysis?
o	Option for survey ex post to collect feedback and insight into user experience from focus group and wider networks
•	It's ok to tell us how you would evaluate given further time and resources (we don't expect you for instance to run a 30 person user study!)
Probably best to fill out towards the end of the project!
