[Return to home](https://github.com/jess-mw/desk23)

# Background and Motivation

## Contents

a. [Background literature. Academic research review.](https://github.com/jess-mw/desk23/blob/main/Documentation/1.%20Background%20and%20Motivation/README.md#a-background-literature-academic-research-review)

b. [State of the art survey. Academic research review.](https://github.com/jess-mw/desk23/blob/main/Documentation/1.%20Background%20and%20Motivation/README.md#b-state-of-the-art-survey-current-industry-review)

c. [Clear definition of the problem.](https://github.com/jess-mw/desk23/blob/main/Documentation/1.%20Background%20and%20Motivation/README.md#c-clear-definition-of-the-problem-how-does-your-project-relate-to-the-above-we-will-be-marking-the-ability-of-your-team-to-identify-a-worthwhile-and-important-problem-and-clearly-articulate-the-scope-and-challenge-of-the-problem)

## a. Background literature. Academic research review.

### Context & scoping the problem – Literacy Rates

Literacy is something many take for granted: an aspect of life that is almost as given as breathing. Our society is heavily structured around being literate, and for those who do not have these skills, life can be extremely hard. Globally, there still remain huge disparities in literacy rates mirroring wider global inequalities that exist today. [1] shows that whilst in many countries more than 95% have basic literacy skills, large inequalities remain: most notably in sub-Saharan Africa. Historically, there is also a large racial and gender gap in literacy rates, exacerbating existing discrimination. However with the increase in literacy rates, [2] found that gender and racial inequalities decrease. Additionally, [3] showed that improving literacy rates lifts individuals out of poverty, improves the development of the wider community, and reduces infant mortality rates. [4] argued it can also improve efficiency and employee satisfaction in business. Our aim with this project is to increase awareness about global literacy rates in a playful manner, to engage our target audience in a way that is novel and enjoyable for them to interact with thus, as [5] argues, increasing the likelihood that they will retain the information.

Please see [here](https://github.com/jess-mw/desk23/blob/491a60804c4803faf8612054fc73f5efd8fa77e2/Documentation/3.%20UX%20Design/5.%20Scoping.md) for a broad overview of how we framed the problem in terms of conceptual, technical and evaluative scope.

#### Methodology

To conduct our literature review, we first defined two research questions to guide our search and analysis. These were:

1. What is the current global state of literacy rates?

    *We developed this question to ensure that we had a good understanding of what the problem, and up to date information about the issue we are trying to address.*

2. How can literacy rates be improved?

    *The purpose of this question is to guide the aims and objectives of our project, so that we can create an artefact that is suitable for its purpose.*

Relevant papers were identified by conducting searches for key terms on the university library website,  various journals, search engines, and [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/). We tried to mitigate researcher bias by using multiple databases in which to conduct our search and selecting papers by their abstracts (rather than author’s names).

#### 1. What is the current global state of literacy rates?

As shown by [1], the current global literacy rate is high, however there remain large disparities between richer and poorer countries. Lower literacy rates in poorer countries mirrors the socio-economic inequality and global crises over food, and [6] argues that with literacy comes opportunities to the disenfranchised to raise income levels and secure access to political, economic, and cultural opportunities. By looking at the problem through the lens of “literate environments” (an environment that cultivates literate skills), [6] found that in Africa, there is a good deal of inertia of institutions that are supposed to be working towards improving literate environments. They found that building sustainable literate environments is an arduous task - a lifetime vocation - and frequently staff are not well enough trained. Although this research was conducted some years ago now, the disparity between sub-Saharan African literacy rates and the rest of the world remains, thus it is likely that the issues [6] talks about are still contributing to the problem.

In the last century, [1] portray how countries in Northern Africa and the Middle East have drastically improved literacy rates across just one generation, and Latin America has greatly improved over the last century. [7] argues that altruism should be backed up by evidence and reasoning to find the most effective ways of improving the lives of others. The evidence provided by [1] illustrates the overall global trend towards higher literacy rates, lending evidence to it being a worthwhile cause to get behind, as it is a problem that is solvable and can be effectively tackled given the right resources.

Looking towards the future, [8] found that globally literacy rates are rising and there is an awareness that it is an issue that needs addressing. However, when the paper was written, almost one in five of the adult population did not have the basic literacy and numeracy skills required to fully participate in society - thus implying it is still very much an issue despite recent improvements. Interestingly, the authors also found that in some regions of high population growth, the number of those without literacy is growing. Therefore, the trend towards higher rates is not necessarily guaranteed to continue as it has been.

In more recent research, [9] contends that the current literacy rate is inadequate, and current measures of literacy fail to appreciate a broader understanding of the reality of how literacy encompasses the myriad of ways that humans communicate. [9] shows that low literacy rates cause drastic losses to economies and high costs to governments, as they are correlated with higher crime rates, poor health, and higher welfare costs. This is because, [9] explains, those who cannot read and write are excluded from the opportunities presented to those who can. [9] suggests that school attendance is intrinsically linked to literacy rates, and thus with attendance drastically lowering over the course of the pandemic, global literacy rates are predicted to worsen.

#### 2. How can literacy rates be improved?

Literacy rates is thus a current issue that needs addressing. [6] found that some ways in which literate environments can be enhanced in Africa is by rethinking the roles and procedures of institutions involved in improving literacy rates and finding ways of giving voice to those working closer to the field. We argue that by raising awareness of the global disparities of literacy rates, it can increase the weight of the arguments of those working in nurturing literate environments. This is because the more people that are aware of the issue, the more likely those working in the field will be listened to.

To improve the speed and quality of work being done to improve the situation, [8] argue that the international community must seek innovative ways to assist marginalised populations to raise their literacy rates. They found that people learn best when literacy acquisition serves their particular needs and purposes, thus work to address literacy rates must take this into account. They write that the scale of funding for adult literacy is insufficient for the size of the task (many countries spend less than 1% of their national education budget on adult literacy), and that lack of adequate funding is the most important barrier to progress. This is because it severely limits the quality, scale, and sustainability of programs developed. Although the paper was written several years ago, as explained above, many of the same issues and disparities still remain. Thus, creating an artefact that can help to raise funds by linking to charities and raising awareness (as we aim to do) would be a useful contribution. Additionally, the authors argue that community engagement is one of the largest factors to improving literacy rates. By creating an educational resource for children, we are targeting the community level, by engaging the children as well as other stakeholders such as their parents and teachers in the issue.

Whilst [9] denotes that reduced school attendance over the course of the pandemic is likely to have lowered literacy rates, they also suggest that the global shift of awareness has caused many people to reconsider what is valuable to them, including educators who work with children (who are part of our target user group). This suggests that people may be more receptive to learning about issues such as literacy rates, which they may have previously taken for granted as an issue that is largely resolved in the modern world. It thus provides a good opportunity to promote an educational resource such as the one we propose to build, as its effectiveness may be enhanced by the global awakening over the past year highlighted by [9].

#### Conclusion

Overall, our literature review demonstrated that whilst there has been a general trend towards the lowering of illiteracy, there still remain large disparities. These inequalities are especially prevalent in poorer countries, and the improvement of educational resources leading to better literacy skills can help members of these populations to participate better in politics and the economy. To improve literacy rates globally, better funding is needed to address the scale of the problem and work towards developing more effective programs. Increasing awareness is one way in which funding for such programs can be raised, thus projects such as the one we have proposed can be a valuable contribution in this sense. Due to a global shift in sensitivity to issues people may not have been previously receptive to (because of the pandemic), this is arguably a good time to deploy an educative tool such as our website. This review therefore helped to solidify our understanding of what the current state of literacy rates is, the issues that surround it, and what our website can do to make meaningful added value.

### Context & scoping the problem – Serious Play

The brief for this assignment was to design and build a web app based around the concept of “serious play”. To address this, we decided to tackle the real-world problem of literacy rates – the scope of which we have explored above – in a playful way. Ensuring that we fully understood the dimensions of our project, and how we were answering the brief, meant that a literature review into the concept of (serious) play was necessary in order to understand what exactly play is and how we can best utilise it. Using findings from this literature review, we could capture elements of fun and play to use in our product to cultivate and maintain user engagement.

Serious play involves drawing attention to serious issues in a playful way with the aim of broadening audiences, highlighting new perspectives, and promoting active learning experience by engaging the user actively in the process [10].

#### Methodology

To conduct our literature review, we first defined two research questions to guide our search and analysis. These were:

1. What is play?

      *We developed this question to ensure that we had a good understanding of the theory of play and the relationship and distinction with games.*

2. What is serious play?

      *The purpose of this question is to narrow and specify from the first question to the project brief, to understand how serious play is understood in the literature, to guide our design choices.*

Our initial source of literature came from recommendations in, and the course content of, this module. In addition, relevant papers were identified through conducting searches for key terms on the university library website, various journals, search engines, and [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/). We tried to mitigate researcher bias by using multiple databases in which to conduct our search and selecting papers by their abstracts (rather than author’s names).

#### 1. What is play?

Play is an aspect of life that emanates through all ages, fostering connection with others and the world around you. Play is not always what you might expect it to be; it is not always fun, there are not always rules, and there isn’t always a goal [10]. It is something you do, but also something you feel. Because of these abstractions and contradictions inherent in play, there are several aspects to the theory of play.

Before looking at what play is, it is useful to examine how people experience play in order to understand more about different modes of engagement. [11] argued that the experience of play lies in the apprehension of an object, thought or emotion, active participation in events/activities, and an event or series of events being lived through. The quality of experience comes from visual scanning, auditory discriminations, motor responses, concentration, and perceptual patterns of learning. We can thus use these aspects in our project to capture the users’ attention and engage them in a playful way, improving the interactivity of our design.

There are different types of play, as explored by [12] who present a model for looking at all kinds of games through the lens of play. The authors categorise this into game play, ludic activity, and play as a mindset. In game play, play is a verb and arises through interaction with structures and rules. For example, in football play emanates from the existence of rules, such as kicking the ball into the goal scores a point. In ludic activity, play may also be a verb. However, play activities are not only games as there are not necessarily rules involved. For example, a ludic playfulness might come from picking up and playing with a cardboard box. With play as a mindset, play is more often conceptualised as an adjective; the spirit of play is injected into some other non-typically playful action. Thus something ordinarily mundane, such as doing the grocery shopping, can be made playful by throwing your shopping into your trolley from further and further away. This therefore makes the distinction between play and games clear, as play covers a much broader spectrum of experience, whereas game is a specific application, or subset, of play where there is structure and rules.

When experiencing these types of play, there are various needs that should be addressed. Adapted from self-determination theory developed by [13], the [PENS](https://natronbaxter.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/05/PENS_Sept07.pdf) [14] (Play Experience of Needs Satisfaction) theory of play defines three key needs that are satisfied through play. These are competence, autonomy, and relatedness. Competence covers feelings of pride and self-confidence, self-efficacy towards the activity (one’s perceived ability to undertake an activity), and mastery of challenge (to be able to set and achieve goals). Autonomy engages the power of choice (which gives the user freedom that they may not have in the real world), feeling in control (not being constrained by the game, or aspects of real life), and being able to self-express. Relatedness encompasses aspects of game that enable connecting with others, and through this feeling part of a community. Our idea largely focuses on the aspect of autonomy, as users will be able to choose which data they are looking at, and how they are navigating the globe. As our target user group is children, this should also address the competence pillar, as through autonomy in navigating the site and engaging with the data, it encourages feelings of self-efficacy. Future extensions of the project could involve fostering the relatedness pillar, perhaps by building features in which users could engage with a community of other users by reading other people’s feedback. 

There is also a distinction drawn by [15] between play and playfulness: play is an activity, whereas playfulness is an attitude. [15] defines an activity as having a set of actions that are performed for certain purposes, whereas an attitude is a stance (physical, psychological, and emotional) towards an activity. Playfulness can project characteristics of play into non-play activities and enables engagement in the world in a playful way without actually playing. This draws back to [12]’s work, where perhaps game play falls under [15]’s category of play, whereas play as a mindset aligns with the idea of playfulness. Ludic activity seems to lie somewhere between the two, where it is a set of actions, that are made playful through the user’s attitude. It is important to keep this distinction between play and playfulness in mind when designing our product and decide whether we want the website to foster engagement through playfulness, or create an environment of play as an activity. Perhaps we will want to foster playfulness through the activity of play, as users actively play with our website and thus develop a playful attitude towards the website and the other issues that we are highlighting. Cultivating this playful attitude can thus encourage engagement with the real world objectives of our product.

#### 2. What is serious play?

As we have seen above, there are many different kinds of play, and certain traits that work to engage us in it. However, play is not always an enjoyable activity that conveys no deeper meaning. There are elements of seriousness inherent in play that are intrinsic to the way that we engage with it. [15] argues that “to play is to be in the world. Playing is a form of understanding what surrounds us and who we are, and a way of engaging with others” (page 1). The concept of play runs outside of the light-hearted, harmless activity that first springs to mind when the concept is imagined: it is a “manifestation of humanity” (page 2) that people use to express and interact with the world around them. It is intrinsic to culture, society, and participation in everyday life. [15] also introduces the concept of “dark play”, where play itself can be serious, chaotic, dangerous, and addictive; this draws focus on the element of seriousness inherent in the phenomena of play itself. As play is a vehicle to experiencing the world around us, and the world can be dark and dangerous, play can therefore mirror this. The omnipresence and multi-dimensionality of play thus makes it the perfect vehicle to transmit important messages, such as the serious issue of literacy rates we are communicating here. [15] argues that play is in fact fundamental to our moral well-being, as it both frees us from moral conventions and makes us aware of them. This therefore makes play a perfect tool for educating people about an issue such as literacy rates, which requires moral awareness in the user to spark engagement and a response.

Applying the ideas explored above, [15] talks about the interaction between politics and play, and how play can be political by critically engaging in a context, using actions to convey multiple meanings. This can be applied to our idea in the visualisation of the data in the form of a globe: it provides a playful way of engaging and interacting with the elements of the websites, but also reflects upon the political nature of our objectives: that literacy rates is a global issue reflecting the interrelatedness and unfairness of humanity. Literacy enables, and is in some senses essential to, active participation in society across the planet, yet there are huge global inequalities in access to this important resource. Whilst this aspect may go over the head of our primary user group, other stakeholders such as teachers and parents may appreciate it, thus engaging their interest in the product as well.

Complementing [15]’s claims, [16] argued that the concept of play is integrated into that of culture; culture in fact grew from the attitude of play. Therefore, play supports and encourages the exploration of serious issues that lie within the concept of culture.

In an exploration of clowning and play [17] argues that play is of crucial importance to society, to allow us to “connect with and interpret symbol and metaphors in a way which may allow us to connect with deeper truths about human existence” (page 12). Play is an important element of development and helps to link inner psychic reality with the actual world. This thus provides more evidence for play being an excellent vehicle for educating people about serious matters, as it connects people on a deeper psychological level with extrinsic phenomena. The role of play in development also emphasises it as a suitable mechanism for engaging our target audience, who are children, and thus in a key stage of development themselves.

Supporting the benefits of using play to address serious issues, [18] argue “that learning and motivation are but two parts of the same issue. Each is needed to define the other.” (page 29). They argue that when someone chooses to devote huge amounts of energy and emotion to such a task, becoming engrossed in it, this can be described through the concept of play, and they thus propose play as a suitable goal for situations that require creative higher-order thinking from people. They present serious play as being when the task is hugely engrossing in such a manner. Arguably, play does not always have to be hugely engrossing. Other literature on the subject analysed above frames serious play as a way of bridging the extrinsic and intrinsic worlds, for example Sicart’s argument that play is a vehicle for exploring the world around us. When exploring the world around us, with serious play, it is possible to do this in an engaged but not engrossed way. For example with our project, it is possible to be engaged with the website and issue that it is addressing, without devoting huge amounts of energy and emotion to the task. However, despite the potential misconception of what serious play is, the authors argument that serious play is suitable to encourage higher-order thinking aligns with other literature studied here and supports it as a mechanism for achieving the objectives of this project.

They also emphasise the importance of integrating play into the serious task, rather than separating the two (having play as a reward for completing the task, for example). The authors argue that integrating the two gives the students a sense of ownership over the process, which fits with the autonomy element of the PENS model explained in the previous section. This makes the learning richer and deeper, allowing for flexibility. This is therefore something that we will consider when designing our product, to improve the effectiveness of achieving our objectives.

#### Conclusion

Through this literature review into play and serious play, we have thus found that people experience play through the apprehension of an object, thought or emotion, actively participating in an event, and living through an event or series of events. There are different types of play, which can be categorised into game play, ludic play, and play as a mindset. These types of play can be more broadly assigned to play as an activity, where play is a set of actions performed for a specific purpose, and playfulness as an attitude towards an activity.  When designing a playful application, we should also think about the needs that play addresses, as mapped out in the PENS model: competence, autonomy, and relatedness. As argued by [15], there are certain elements of seriousness inherent to play as it is a vehicle for experiencing the world around us, which itself is nuanced and varied. Play emanates to all aspects of life, and is fundamental to our moral-well being as it both frees us from moral conventions and draws our attention to them. This makes it a suitable tool to educate people about serious issues such as literacy rates. Additionally, [16] supports the integration of play and culture, emphasizing the use of play in exploring serious cultural issues. Play also is an excellent way to connect and interpret metaphors, as argued by [17], and connecting learning and motivation, as presented by [18]. Their work also emphasises the importance of integrating play and seriousness, and not separating the two. Overall, this review has highlighted several aspects of play that we can use to inform our design process in order to achieve our objectives more effectively.

### Bibliography

1.	Literacy. Our World in Data. [Online]. Available at: https://ourworldindata.org/literacy [Accessed: 10/03/21]
2.	120 Years of Literacy. National Centre for Education Statistics. [Online]. Available at: https://nces.ed.gov/naal/lit_history.asp  [Accessed: 10/03/21]
3.	The importance of education, how literacy improves lives. Plan UK. [Online]. Available at: https://plan-uk.org/blogs/the-importance-of-education-how-literacy-improves-lives [Accessed: 10/03/21]
4.	Why businesses should care about the UK’s literacy problem. Coster Content. [Online]. Available at: https://www.costercontent.co.uk/blog/literacy-trust-literacy-problem [Accessed: 10/03/21]
5.	W. L. Ostroff, Understanding How Young Children Learn. Association for Supervision & Curriculum Development, 2012 
6.	P. Easton, Sustaining Literacy in Africa. France: United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, 2014
7.	P. Singer, The Most Good You Can Do. United States: Yale University Press, 2015
8.	M. Richmond, C. Robinson, M. Sachs-Israel, The Global Literacy Challenge. France: United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, 2008
9.	J. Murray, “Literacy is inadequate: young children need literacies” International Journal of Early Years Education, vol. 29, no. 1, pp 1-5, February 2021
10.	COMSM1401 Software Engineering, The University of Bristol, 2021
11.	B. Sutton-Smith, Toys as Culture. United States: Gardner Press, Inc., 1986
12.	K. Salen and E. Zimmerman, Rules of Play. United States: The MIT Press, 2003
13.	R. Ryan and E. Deci, “Self-Determination Theory and the Facilitation of Intrinsic Motivation, Social Development, and Well-Being” American Psychologist, vol. 55, no. 1, pp 68-78, January 2000
14.	S. Rigby and R. Ryan, The Play Experience of Need Satisfaction. Immersyve, Inc. 2004-2007
15.	M. Sicart, Play Matters. United States: The MIT Press, 2014
16.	J. Huizinga, Homo Ludens. Netherlands: Random House, 1938
17.	M. Peacock,  Serious Play. United Kingdom: Intellect Books, 2009
18.	L. Rieber, L. Smith and D. Noah, “The Value of Serious Play” Educational Technology, vol. 38, no. 6, pp. 29-37, November-December 1998


## b. State of the art survey. Current industry review.

As Literacy rates have a high level of influence over personal development, there are various charities, organizations working on raising public awareness and engagement in a variety of different ways. Some give examples of literacy statistics in certain areas, such as [literacytrust.org.uk](https://literacytrust.org.uk/information/what-is-literacy/), while websites like [worldpopulationreview](https://worldpopulationreview.com/country-rankings/literacy-rate-by-country) and [UNICEF](https://data.unicef.org/resources/dataset/education-literacy-data/) prefer to show literacy data in diagrams of different forms. Our website mainly concentrates on using data visualization, making it interactive, and playful, which is more suitable for our younger target user group. A simplified PEST analysis is carried out here for the industry review.

### Political Factors

The data used for building the website originated from open online resources [1]. Most of the data is  collected by non-profit organizations and foundations and is free to use or distribute. There is also some other data produced by related governments. It can be estimated that authorities will keep the data openly accessible, however, the group noticed that the dataset is incomplete and thus may require more data from different resources, including related governments. This process should be paid extra attention for copyright protection.

### Economic Factors

For now our website runs on localhost, which has no requirement of cost to running server, but it has to be considered as the website is set and ready. Most foundations run their website by building their own host server or paying the commercial hosting provider [2] (e.g. [literacytrust.org.uk](https://literacytrust.org.uk/information/what-is-literacy/)). Small-size organizations tend to cooperate with institutions or universities, joining non-profit programs related to literacy rates, such as [ourworldindata.org](https://ourworldindata.org/). There are also other websites that pay the cost of the hosting server through advertisements, which would be a practical choice for our website.

### Social Factors

Our website mainly aims to stimulate user enthusiasm about the global literacy problem. Although there are more and more people realizing the problem, the majority of public have little idea on this topic. This is mainly due to a lack of news, media and other forms of publicized information about what is happening at rural areas. As a matter of fact, even in developed countries citizens with lower income have significant lower literacy rates compared with other social classes [3]. Due to the limitation of their influence on social media, this problem has been ignored for a long time. What’s more, considering the impact of the Covid pandemic it is estimated that the public attention will be redirected towards heath and economy, making it more difficult to concentrate effort on raising people’s awareness of literacy rates.

### Technology Factors

The major concern in this aspect is the maintenance of the website. For now, only a few features have been implemented and we expect to add more, as well as keep data updated. However, requirements for new features are yet to be discussed, for example, the applications to be used, as well as new libraries. Making the website cross-platformed might even require rebuild it using different languages and frameworks, which present higher requirements on system compacity [4].

### Bibliography
1.	Literacy. Our World in Data. [Online]. Available at: <https://ourworldindata.org/literacy> [Accessed: 10/03/21]
2.	How to Host a Website: the Complete Beginner’s Guide <https://www.websitebuilderexpert.com/hosting-websites/>
3.	Nagle, J. (1993). Social Class and School Literacy. The Radical Teacher, (44), 21-23. 
4.	Where Do Cross-Platform App Frameworks Stand in 2021? <https://www.netsolutions.com/insights/cross-platform-app-frameworks-in-2019/>


## c. Clear definition of the problem.

We have seen that literacy rates often translate into economic opportunity, and is often a prerequisite for tapping into wider networks of communication between people and a foundation on which to build further skills. The ability to read and write has throughout history allowed people to spread ideas and exercise power and influence. On the other side of the coin, literacy allows the consumption of ideas and the ability to engage with debates, and access to knowledge and learning, which ties into human dignity, and opportunities for spiritual enrichment. The problem of low literacy rates and insufficient access to education is very real, yet often understated, where many people underestimate the scale of the issue and falsely assume that this was a problem of the past that has largely been resolved. Often this can be because literacy rates data has been viewed as a whole, a positive global rising trend that may have obscured the remaining problem. The signficance of contrasts in global literacy rates, and the inequalities that they represent, has also not been highlighted in discussion about global inequalities. Access to education is intersectional in nature, where educational and social opportunities are available to differing degrees according to gender, race, economic status, caste, disabilities or special education needs, and identity. 

Against this backdrop, the resources currently available to communicate about global literacy rates in an engaging way is lacking. As described in the section above, surprisingly few map or globe-based data visualisations exist, and much of global literacy rates data is confined to dense databases using technical language maintained by international organisations or NGOs. The existing data visualisations make use of line graphs, scatter plots, bar charts, or 2D maps and rarely have interactive features. These often technical and dense presentations of the data may affect young people the most, and may be exacerbated by reportedly shorter attention spans of digital natives, the current generation exposed to technology from an early age. At the same time, young people will grow up to shape the future and therefore represent a demographic that cannot be overlooked in discussions about literacy. They also have recent experience with schooling and education, from which we may infer a personal link to the data.

The project will seek to fill this gap by providing an alternative data visualisation which responds to the brief of serious play, and seeks to make global literacy rates data interesting and fun, particularly for younger generations. The visualisation is interactive, allowing discovery of the data and hands-on opportunities to click and manipulate the globe, intended to engage the user. A 3D globe format was chosen given the global nature of the issue of illiteracy, making this a natural way to visualise the data and bring out disparities between countries. The project will also clarify trends and patterns in the data, which would otherwise be difficult to detect if it remains in the database. As such, national and regional differences will come to light, and it will be easier to identify areas with low literacy rates without much effort.
